_Sorry that it took so long for my reply (I needed to get access to the forum first_ :-) _)._

Let me answer from the **dm3** perspective. First of all, it is a good step to publish the connection information in an ENS record. Here we are on the same page.

The MP record, as you described above, would only help to see, what is the preferred communication protocol of this user, but it would not help to NOT build silos as it is in messaging in web2 nowadays. This would mean: you can easily find what protocol the receiver prefers, but an app would not be able to send or receive a message less it supports this protocol, too.

**We think we need to go one step further - which means, we should define a base standard that can connect different applications and even protocols.**

Our proposal was/is to build such a connection between protocols and apps based on the **dm3 Message Transfer Protocol** (in short **dm3 MTP**). This makes it possible to communicate across apps and protocols, as long as each implements the 3 things:

* adds information to the **Registry** (ENS record). Subdomains (like _username_._nameofservice_.eth). To bundle the registry for ecosystems are possible, where data is hosted in Layer-1, or in Layer-2, or similar using CCIP.
* implementing a **Delivery Service** to receive messages in "**dm3** format", where the receiver can pick the message or the message is distributed in another service/protocol, ...
* implement the ability to build a **dm3** compatible message and send it to the delivery service of the receiver (listed in registry = ENS record)

**Pros from the user perspective:** The user can decide which app/messenger he/she wants to use, and they can send and receive messages from any sender, as long, as the users's app supports the **dm3 MTP**. The user also can find contact information on how to connect to others in the general registry (ENS) and can send messages (to the receivers delivery service).

**From the app/protocol perspective:** To implement/support the **dm3 MTP** only the **dm3** message formate needs to be supported, the contact information can be read from the ENS record and a or several delivery service(s) need to be implemented and operated.

This week, we will release the first version of the specification for the **dm3 MTP** - which is meant as base for further discussions. Nothing is in stone for now - we seek for feedback and open discussion to define together as community a lean base standard to make messaging in web3 interoperable from the very begining (that it needs to be encrypted and suffient sufficient decentralized is self-evident and does not need to be emphasized.)